---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "http-bin Data Source - terraform-provider-http-bin"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The http-bin data source makes an HTTP GET request to the given URL and exports
  information about the response.
  The given URL may be either an http or https URL. At present this resource
  can only retrieve data from URLs that respond with application/zip content type,
  binary data format converted to base64 encoded string then.
  ~> Important Although https URLs can be used, there is currently no
  mechanism to authenticate the remote server except for general verification of
  the server certificate's chain of trust. Data retrieved from servers not under
  your control should be treated as untrustworthy.
---

# http-bin (Data Source)

The `http-bin` data source makes an HTTP GET request to the given URL and exports
information about the response.

The given URL may be either an `http` or `https` URL. At present this resource
can only retrieve data from URLs that respond with `application/zip` content type, 
binary data format converted to base64 encoded string then.

~> **Important** Although `https` URLs can be used, there is currently no
mechanism to authenticate the remote server except for general verification of
the server certificate's chain of trust. Data retrieved from servers not under
your control should be treated as untrustworthy.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `url` (String) The URL for the request. Supported schemes are `http` and `https`.

### Optional

- `ca_cert_pem` (String) Certificate data of the Certificate Authority (CA) in [PEM (RFC 1421)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1421) format.
- `insecure` (Boolean) Disables verification of the server's certificate chain and hostname. Defaults to `false`
- `method` (String) The HTTP Method for the request. Allowed methods are a subset of methods defined in [RFC7231](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7231#section-4.3) namely, `GET`, `HEAD`, and `POST`. `POST` support is only intended for read-only URLs, such as submitting a search.
- `request_body` (String) The request body as a string.
- `request_headers` (Map of String) A map of request header field names and values.

### Read-Only

- `body` (String, Deprecated) The response body returned as a base64 string data. **NOTE**: This is deprecated, use `response_body` instead.
- `id` (String) The URL used for the request.
- `response_body` (String) The response body returned as a base64 string data
- `response_headers` (Map of String) A map of response header field names and values. Duplicate headers are concatenated according to [RFC2616](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec4.html#sec4.2).
- `status_code` (Number) The HTTP response status code.


